README.md, before:

# matsim-example-project

A small example of how to use MATSim as a library.

By default, this project uses the latest (pre-)release. In order to use a different version, edit `pom.xml`.

A recommended directory structure is as follows:
* `src` for sources
* `original-input-data` for original input data (typically not in MATSim format)
* `scenarios` for MATSim scenarios, i.e. MATSim input and output data.  A good way is the following:
  * One subdirectory for each scenario, e.g. `scenarios/mySpecialScenario01`.
  * This minimally contains a config file, a network file, and a population file.
  * Output goes one level down, e.g. `scenarios/mySpecialScenario01/output-from-a-good-run/...`.
  
  
### Import into eclipse

1. download a modern version of eclipse. This should have maven and git included by default.
1. `file->import->git->projects from git->clone URI` and clone as specified above.  _It will go through a 
sequence of windows; it is important that you import as 'general project'._
1. `file->import->maven->existing maven projects`

Sometimes, step 3 does not work, in particular after previously failed attempts.  Sometimes, it is possible to
right-click to `configure->convert to maven project`.  If that fails, the best thing seems to remove all 
pieces of the failed attempt in the directory and start over.

### Import into IntelliJ

`File -> New -> Project from Version Control` paste the repository url and hit 'clone'. IntelliJ usually figures out
that the project is a maven project. If not: `Right click on pom.xml -> import as maven project`.

### Java Version

The project uses Java 11. Usually a suitable SDK is packaged within IntelliJ or Eclipse. Otherwise, one must install a 
suitable sdk manually, which is available [here](https://openjdk.java.net/)

### Building and Running it locally

You can build an executable jar-file by executing the following command:

```sh
./mvnw clean package
```

or on Windows:

```sh
mvnw.cmd clean package
```

This will download all necessary dependencies (it might take a while the first time it is run) and create a file `matsim-example-project-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar` in the top directory. This jar-file can either be double-clicked to start the MATSim GUI, or executed with Java on the command line:

```sh
java -jar matsim-example-project-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar
```



### Licenses
(The following paragraphs need to be adjusted according to the specifications of your project.)

The **MATSim program code** in this repository is distributed under the terms of the [GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation (version 2)](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/old-licenses/gpl-2.0.en.html). The MATSim program code are files that reside in the `src` directory hierarchy and typically end with `*.java`.

The **MATSim input files, output files, analysis data and visualizations** are licensed under a <a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/">Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License</a>.
<a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/"><img alt="Creative Commons License" style="border-width:0" src="https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by/4.0/80x15.png" /></a><br /> MATSim input files are those that are used as input to run MATSim. They often, but not always, have a header pointing to matsim.org. They typically reside in the `scenarios` directory hierarchy. MATSim output files, analysis data, and visualizations are files generated by MATSim runs, or by postprocessing.  They typically reside in a directory hierarchy starting with `output`.

**Other data files**, in particular in `original-input-data`, have their own individual licenses that need to be individually clarified with the copyright holders.

Commit message:

adding intial files for matsim ai

README.md, after:

# MATSIMAI

## Project Setup

Make sure you have conda and maven installed and then to setup the project run

```
cd matsimAI
./setup_project.sh
```

This compiles the java code, and creates a new python environment in conda, to activate 
the python environment run

```
conda activate matsimAIenv
```





# matsim-example-project

A small example of how to use MATSim as a library.

By default, this project uses the latest (pre-)release. In order to use a different version, edit `pom.xml`.

A recommended directory structure is as follows:
* `src` for sources
* `original-input-data` for original input data (typically not in MATSim format)
* `scenarios` for MATSim scenarios, i.e. MATSim input and output data.  A good way is the following:
  * One subdirectory for each scenario, e.g. `scenarios/mySpecialScenario01`.
  * This minimally contains a config file, a network file, and a population file.
  * Output goes one level down, e.g. `scenarios/mySpecialScenario01/output-from-a-good-run/...`.
  
  
### Import into eclipse

1. download a modern version of eclipse. This should have maven and git included by default.
1. `file->import->git->projects from git->clone URI` and clone as specified above.  _It will go through a 
sequence of windows; it is important that you import as 'general project'._
1. `file->import->maven->existing maven projects`

Sometimes, step 3 does not work, in particular after previously failed attempts.  Sometimes, it is possible to
right-click to `configure->convert to maven project`.  If that fails, the best thing seems to remove all 
pieces of the failed attempt in the directory and start over.

### Import into IntelliJ

`File -> New -> Project from Version Control` paste the repository url and hit 'clone'. IntelliJ usually figures out
that the project is a maven project. If not: `Right click on pom.xml -> import as maven project`.

### Java Version

The project uses Java 11. Usually a suitable SDK is packaged within IntelliJ or Eclipse. Otherwise, one must install a 
suitable sdk manually, which is available [here](https://openjdk.java.net/)

### Building and Running it locally

You can build an executable jar-file by executing the following command:

```sh
./mvnw clean package
```

or on Windows:

```sh
mvnw.cmd clean package
```

This will download all necessary dependencies (it might take a while the first time it is run) and create a file `matsim-example-project-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar` in the top directory. This jar-file can either be double-clicked to start the MATSim GUI, or executed with Java on the command line:

```sh
java -jar matsim-example-project-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar
```



### Licenses
(The following paragraphs need to be adjusted according to the specifications of your project.)

The **MATSim program code** in this repository is distributed under the terms of the [GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation (version 2)](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/old-licenses/gpl-2.0.en.html). The MATSim program code are files that reside in the `src` directory hierarchy and typically end with `*.java`.

The **MATSim input files, output files, analysis data and visualizations** are licensed under a <a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/">Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License</a>.
<a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/"><img alt="Creative Commons License" style="border-width:0" src="https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by/4.0/80x15.png" /></a><br /> MATSim input files are those that are used as input to run MATSim. They often, but not always, have a header pointing to matsim.org. They typically reside in the `scenarios` directory hierarchy. MATSim output files, analysis data, and visualizations are files generated by MATSim runs, or by postprocessing.  They typically reside in a directory hierarchy starting with `output`.

**Other data files**, in particular in `original-input-data`, have their own individual licenses that need to be individually clarified with the copyright holders.
